if the production of textiles and
clothing is bad for the environment but
we still need to produce clothes should
we be trying to create new materials
that are more sustainable and if so what
would those be I've found an event
called the Future fabrics Expo where
designers will be exhibiting sustainable
alternatives to traditional fabrics and
I'm going to see what's on offer and I'm
going to wear this to the expo
can you guess what it's made out of I'm
graves and I love fashion I'm finding
out about sustainable fashion and how I
can be a more responsible shopper so I'm
here at Future fabrics Expo ready to see
some sustainable materials I want to
learn more about them and I want to talk
to the guys who create them this is a
freshwater fish from the Amazon I can't
feel Eric ooh and this is all treated in
Rio Rio de Janerio
with all natural products so there's no
damage and environments
so what's it made out of fish fish yes
this is what the fish is like okay Wow
grow up to 250 kilos the local community
they eat it so this this ladder was just
being thrown away and so you don't kill
the fish for limiting oh no no they can
only be fished to a certain minimum size
and also to a certain number would you
say it's a luxury product very look you
can be mass-produced no no no we with
the skin buy scheme and every skin is
Union despite exclusive exclusive and
luxury yeah one piece like it would cost
around 200 years
[Music]
so this is all made out of cotton mainly
we have 90% organic cotton but we also
have recycled materials like one is
called three fiber for example and what
we do is a little special because we
sell this fabric from one metre onwards
and we stock the fabric for the
designers so they can buy one metre they
don't have to fulfill these high
minimums which normally applies what is
cool against all this fast fashion trend
that people start to make something they
are on their own yeah and that the craft
is coming back which can't be seen as
more sustainable in general anyway I
think so it is more sustainable and also
you value a clothes more if you know the
person who produces it I think a lot of
people may think that sustainable
products are more expensive and the
materials what would you say to that I
think it's two different answers one is
that certain materials will come down in
price massively just because the
chemical pollution that's caused for
example will have to be factored into
the price so cleaning up the water way
the bill for doing that is currently
borne by society by the taxpayer now
that should be done by the polluter
itself so then that means about fabric
that has been produced in a non
sustainable way and will actually
integrate those costs and that makes the
product I should become more expensive
therefore the things that do not follow
it will become cheaper but also it's a
typical example of its some of them some
are still niche so yes some of them are
just being innovated and you know it's
not scaled up yet so then of course
they're little bit expensive so I've
looked around today and I've seen some
really really incredible materials very
exciting do you think that is the future
do you think we will be able to find
these in shops
yes of course we will of course we will
but we need to ask for them what we need
is to be able to say go to the top
keeper and say excuse me where is the
equivalent of this t-shirt in order
where can I find it and if they say
sorry we don't do it then you might want
to say I might want to go to the shop
that does you know and and it's making
those discerning choices just as you say
by but I wouldn't be seen dad in gold
sequins you should be able to say well I
wouldn't be seen dead in something that
harms our planet and the people who make
them so it's not just it's a trend
choice you know it's a style choice as
well so I'm wearing a jacket today yes
where we test your knowledge Jonathan
laughs Jonathan can you guess what it's
readout of I'm assuming and I'm gonna
cheat I'm assuming that because you're
here it's good but is it mushroom it's
not much of what is it it's made out of
pineapple Oh pineapple yes so I've just
come back from the expo and it was
honestly really interesting the only
thing is I'm not sure whether making
clothes out animal skin is sustainable
and I'm pretty sure some people have
already questioned it for its ethics so
I'm not completely sure whether a luxury
product like this can become a
sustainable staple we've that said I
have heard that small productions of
well-crafted goods could help turn
people's head from fast-fashion by
giving them a product that they can
cherish but many of these products will
become affordable over time as long as
we demand sustainability it was nice to
see that even also I was surprised by my
jacket I'm now gonna head into town to
see what other people think about future
materials what material do you think
this jackets made out of I don't
actually know
it kind of looks like leather but it's
not a foam so it's made out of pineapple
juice okay
pineapple ease no way oh so this jacket
costs a lot more than the standard
jacket okay would you be willing to buy
it no if I said that it was sustainable
but if the environment would you be
running dry yeah yeah I feel like some
people would if like that's the type of
thing that you could afford I think
someone else might have to like
interested in the high-fashion but I
personally probably not so it looks like
loads of new materials are being created
and I do think some are going to have an
impact but I think some of them are also
just luxuries it looks like we may have
to pay more for these future fabrics but
there is hope that price will come down
as demand increases I do think we need
to be wary because if we treat new
materials the same as we treat old we
might just end up in the same place so
as always we need to be responsible we
need to buy for your clothing and we
need to stop throwing our clothes away
we need to check the labels and we
should definitely be sticking to our own
style but most importantly buy clothes
that you love and will wear for years
and years to come